Mark Hogancamp, the survivor of a brutal beating outside a bar in 2000 who escapes from his pain by creating a World War II fantasy with dolls, is a complex man with a unique story; he is now an acclaimed artist.

Unfortunately, co-writer and director Robert Zemeckis and actor Steve Carell can¡¯t quite capture the subtle nuances of Hogancamp and his fantasy life in ¡°Welcome to Marwen,¡± a film that is caught in its tug-of-war between the drama of the grueling recovery of a damaged individual addicted to pain pills and an animated World War II action fantasy.

Hogancamp, so memorably profiled in Jeff Malmberg¡¯s superior 2010 documentary ¡°Marwencol,¡± was apparently a cross-dresser in his former life, which led to his beating. So he was the victim of a hate crime. He has a closet full of women¡¯s shoes.

Understandably, since he was beaten by men and rescued by women ¡ª his rehab nurse, his bar co-worker, his next-door neighbor, etc. ¡ª his WWII fantasy is about a perpetually in-danger American soldier, Capt. Hogie, who establishes a base in a fictional Belgian village and is protected by a bevy of beautiful, scantily-clad women, all fantasy doubles of the women in Hogancamp¡¯s real life.

¡°Welcome to Marwen¡± is populated with these women ¡ª mainly his neighbor Nicol (Leslie Mann); his co-worker at a bar restaurant, Caralala (Eiza Gonz¨¢lez); his Russian caregiver Anna (Gwendoline Christie); his rehab partner Julie (Janelle Mon¨¢e), who lost a leg in Afghanistan; the star of his favorite 1980s soft-porn films, Suzette (Leslie Zemeckis, wife of the director); the mysterious Deja (Diane Kruger), who exists only in Hogancamp¡¯s fantasy world; and most affectingly, Roberta (Merritt Wever, best of the bunch), the owner of his local toy store.

Carell does his best, strolling around either in women¡¯s shoes or full military regalia, holding conversations with his dolls, struggling with his PTSD. But Zemeckis and Dreamworks are limited by their decision to make a soft, PG-13 movie. Whereas as the real Hogancamp had some stunningly stark storylines in his real-life village, the Marwen of Zemeckis¡¯ film plays more like a Quentin Tarantino babe fantasy.

And Hogancamp¡¯s interaction with the town¡¯s real-life women is problematic. Most of the women in ¡°Welcome to Marwen¡± have underdeveloped roles ¡ª they seem to be fantasy figures, too ¡ª and Hogancamp¡¯s childlike (read: socially awkward) interactions with them are less the painful emotional damage of an assault survivor than a creepy Forrest Gump (the obvious Zemeckis parallel).

So ¡°Welcome to Marwen¡± does not work as a drama of addiction, and frankly it doesn¡¯t work as a celebration of Hogancamp¡¯s creations, which work best as stunning still-photo images.

At one point, Carell¡¯s Hogancamp explains that wearing women¡¯s shoes ¡°connects me to the essence of dames ¡ª er, women.¡± The film, however, can¡¯t quite connect to the complex essence of Hogancamp himself.